Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
This is the second telecast, bringing you the news from Washington, which I'm very
honored to present.
And on this occasion, we are very happy to have with us the distinguished member of Congress
from Tennessee, from the fourth congressional district, the honorable Joe Evans.
Joe is beginning his eighth term as a member of the House of Representatives.
He is a member of the Appropriations Committee.
And I want to tell all of you people of Tennessee, not only of your fourth district, Joe,
but everyone that you are a very hardworking, effective member of the House of Representatives.
And we certainly are glad to have you here.
You're most generous, Estes.
Well, Joe, I came up here in 1933 in March for the passage of the lame document to the inauguration
of President Roosevelt.
And of course, we were all here during this current inauguration, and I haven't talked with you
people since then.
During all of the snow and slush and the cold winds and most of us caught bad colds,
I don't think there has been as much enthusiasm or as large a crowd in spite of the cold weather
in town as there was for the Mr. Canada's inauguration.
Yes, it was a great outpouring of people's mall over the country, and we were certainly
privileged to have a great number of our friends from Tennessee.
It was truly a great inaugural, a great occasion, and we lived through the snow.
And we had three bands from Tennessee, and the other states just had one, so we got to...
Oh, the edge on.
...let me mention a couple of those outstanding bands from the fourth district of Tennessee,
from the University of South at Siwani, and also the Muffersboro Band.
We were very proud of them.
And then, he and I, won the draw, and they had a band and then Mars town.
I had promised the people at Mars town.
It certainly they were very excellent band, but they invited to March in the parade.
They won the National Honors last year, but they only wanted one from one state,
so I got Jigs Donahue, the parade chairman, let them march in place of the Virgin Isles,
which didn't send the band up here, but Tennessee played a big part.
I had the feeling, Joe, that during inauguration and what's been happening since,
is quite similar to the situation in 1933, when President Roosevelt took over.
Of course, there was a tremendous domestic recession and depression at that time.
All is not well on the domestic front, but we don't have his bad situation.
But we do have a grave international problems, and then, as now,
it was a time for great leadership, for affirmative action.
And I think our president has been showing that in his inaugural address.
I mean, his message is to the Congress, don't you?
Yes, yes, it is. The president delivered a great inaugural address,
and I think all of us of the Congress have been impressed with the great speech
which he delivered before the joint section of the Congress,
his first message on the state of the Union.
Well, Joe, I felt at this speech, he stated justice.
He saw it without missing any words, without trying to cover over anything.
The pictures he saw it today, economically.
That is, that we have a lot of bad situations that we have to, but they're not hopeless.
And that in the international affairs and among the nations of the world,
we have lost some standing. There has been some deterioration, but there again,
with leadership, with sacrifice that we can bring about a better condition.
I thought it was a very forthright fine assessment.
And after all, the American people ought to know exactly where we stand.
Well, certainly he discussed domestic issues, but he greatly pointed up our troubles spots in the world
and indicated that America would not be second to any nation in power and strength.
It was a message of security and national defense.
The president has certainly has a precise mind and a factual knowledge of a grasp of things already.
Today he's reaching through to the public and his views, offering a program to the Congress.
Well, I thought not only in the state of the Union message, as well as the inaugural message,
it was not only what he had to say, but the force of which he delivered his speech,
the dedication and the cheers you.
And sincerity.
As you know that the president, John F. Kennedy and I, were classmates together,
we came to Congress at the same time, and my classmates has now become president.
In 1946.
1946.
I was there with you in 1946 and 1947, and I came over to the Senate and your classmates joined us.
And I remember that.
At first session when you and I served together in the House, I didn't get to see you very much.
You were campaigning for the Senate.
Well, you know, you have to do that sometimes.
Well, I have a feeling also that similar to what we had in 1933,
that we have a lot of new faces around, a lot of young people with vision.
They call them a new frontier.
A new frontier.
And who was it that sang that song, said the country is on the best of hands?
Is that David Crocket?
Good of them.
Well, I know that there are a lot of fine, capable young men and women who have come into government service
with great dedication, many of them making sacrifices.
And I feel that by and large, Mr. Cavity has gotten very good men to advise and work with them.
Certainly, he has surrounded himself with some very evil men.
Even the former president has committed him on his selection of his cabinet,
and said that he had been able to attract some of these very outstanding men.
And his assistance on any cabinet.
One man who has been nominated is Joe Switler, who used to be General Counsel for the Tennessee Valley Authority
to be chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
And the very significant selection, I was very pleased that the president selected him to become chairman.
And this is very important commission.
He comes from Nashville, where he's been practicing law since he left the TVA.
And I think he's a fair man. I think he's forceful.
I think he has a viewpoint of the consumer.
And believe me, we've been needing that viewpoint in the federal power.
Well, the landish reporter, as you know,
has decided the operation of the Federal Power Commission among all of the independent agencies
as the one who is least functioning properly in the public interest.
In the last few years, it manages the Natural Gas Act and the granting of franchises
on the construction of great power dams throughout the nation.
It's a very important commission.
And I think Mr. Switler will make a very excellent chairman.
But Joe, of course, there have been a whole lot in the news the last few days
about the fight in the House of Representatives over the change in the rules committee.
And you've been right there, where it's been taking place,
where the fires have been going on.
So tell us about what the shootings all of them are.
Well, as you know, at the beginning of each new session of the Congress,
both the House and the Senate adopt rules of procedure for their individual bodies.
The House has already adopted for the 87th Congress the same rules of procedure
as were employed in the 86th Congress.
But while adopting the same rules, we have been evaluated
and considering the operations of the committee,
whether it has been read through the functioning,
the real issue and the rules committee vote,
was whether or not the elected representatives of all the people,
the entire House should have a right to work its will,
where they should have a right to vote on legislation,
or where they're a very small group, or a handful,
a very small minority.
You both are 12.
Well, even in 2003, where their vote could tie up a legislation,
it had been charges that bills have been pigeonholed,
it has been a roadblock, and even vetoed.
And certain legislation has not been permitted to reach the floor of the House.
Now, let us take a bill that has been debated for weeks and for months
before a standing legislative committee of the Congress.
After the bill has been discussed, public hearings have been had,
and a majority of the membership vote upon a bill,
then the function of the rules committee is to orderly proceed on to the floor
with measures for the House to debate and consider.
If, historic...
I mean, the time and the day and...
Yes.
And the numbers of bills that will flow on to the floor,
they schedule them as though traffic were to pass along.
The rules committee is not supposed to be a dead end street,
it's supposed to be a committee to orderly permit legislation
to come on to the floor for debate and consideration.
Now, there has been instances of which maybe there are many bills that shouldn't pass.
I know in the past I have voted for a rule to bring a bill on the floor to debate it,
which is democratic.
It's certainly democratic to have a free discussion of a measure,
even controversial measures.
But then after the bill was debated, after it was possibly amended,
and made obnoxious, why I would vote against it on final passage.
But the real issue is whether the full elected representatives
should have a right to debate and to vote upon legislation.
Of whether a few of very small minorities should block legislation
and deny the House the right to exercise its will.
Speaker Rayburn said,
it's certainly the House, the elected representatives of the people,
should have the right to vote upon legislation.
The rules committee is not a committee on legislation,
it's an administrative committee.
It's an oral of the leadership, historically it goes with the leadership.
Well, Joe, we thank you very much for telling us what's about the issue.
And certainly if we're going to get a new program over the entire membership
of the House of Representatives all they had to have a chance to vote.
Well, I'll be right down.
My committee on appropriations has 50 members.
And the membership of this committee has been increased since I've been here.
The rules committee used to be composed of five members.
Later it was nine.
At another time there were 14.
And in the last few years they've settled on 12,
which is an even number conducive to a tie vote, six to six.
So there have been a lot of tie votes.
And legislation is not reached the floor.
So it's nothing unusual to change a committee of the Congress.
As a matter of fact, we adopted a resolution allowing the speaker
and the minority leader to adjust the ratio of members of the committee.
This committee has been composed of 12 members.
Now it will be composed of 15 with three additions, two Democrats and one Republican.
By the way, the speaker had just announced, as you know,
the two new Democratic members of the committee.
They are Congressman Carl Elliott of Alabama and BF Sisk of California.
There are both of them I know in there, very substantial.
Very sound, man. Very good, man.
Well, then the President of the State of the Union message,
he, of course, couldn't go into details about all of the things he was going to do.
And there were some little criticism on that part,
but he's been acting very rapidly since that time.
He's issued, for instance, an executive order
and expanding the surplus food distribution principally by,
and then also setting up food staff areas.
And I hope that we'll get one in Tennessee.
I thought another very important thing he did was that the Community Facilities Program,
which has only been applicable to sewers and water districts and water and gas,
has been expanded so as to be applicable to anything else.
And, incidentally, Joe, I've introduced a bill to enlarge the Community Facilities Program,
so as to have a revolving fund of $1 billion to be loaned on worthwhile projects
at a rate of interest, one-fourth above what the government has to pay for its money.
As to say, as a representative of a lot of our very excellent to small towns,
I know that they have benefited from this program for municipal water works,
sidewalks for libraries for hospital construction,
and various municipal and community improvements.
Well, these are things that not only need to be done,
they've been many improvements from the day they have a loan program.
That's a loan program, but we paid by it.
Certainly given employment to a great many people.
And also, we've been housing starts have been almost dried up,
so the president has lowered the interest rate by one quarter of a percent
or one-half a percent, no one-fourth of a percent,
on FHA home loans, which ought to help in that respect.
Then I think Joe that, um,
president was wise in following the suggestion of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and revoking the order about no dependence on having to be sent back.
I think that by trying to get them to restrict travel,
tourism abroad, and to buy their capital equipment here in the United States.
Let me say, Esther said, I would certainly be for cutting down on some expenditures abroad,
but not at the expense of the American soldier and the American servicemen and their families.
Well, I was over the NATO parliamentarians conference shortly after this order went into effect,
and the effect on the morale of our soldiers was evident to be seen.
There certainly must be other ways where the same result can be accomplished.
But Joe, I want to tell you how good it is to have you over here with us,
and we are going to have a very exciting and I know a very useful session of Congress,
and I hope that one of these days we can get you back to join in reporting to the people of Tennessee.
Thank you.
It's just you're very nice to invite me.
Ladies and gentlemen, until four weeks from today,
when we will bring you another report, that's all.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.